---
title: IT Applications
description: C394
published: true
date: 2022-07-25T13:35:47.768Z
tags: College, CompTIA, A+
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2022-05-09T13:35:00.998Z
---
# IT Applications - C394
###### Page still needs to be cleaned up
•	Windows 7 was the first OS to offer the Windows Store
•	MSINFO is the utility used to troubleshoot system problems ranging from hardware failures to problems with software and device drivers.
•	SFC /SCAN NOW is used to check the hard disk for corrupted files and repair them
•	MSTSC is used to open the remote Desktop Connection
•	Privacy tab is where you go in internet explorer to handle cookies and pop-up windows.
•	-f is the do not fragment flay when pining and troubleshooting mtu issues
•	Worms are malware that spreads without human interaction
•	GDPR or General Data Protections Regulation is a european union regulation that protects privacy of EU residents.
•	Phishing attack uses fake but official looking messages to trick users into preforming dangerous actions.
•	Xcopy preserves existing permissions when copying.
•	WAF or Web application firewall elevates rules based on higher level protocols used by web servers
•	Port security is used to restrict devices which connect to the network.
•	MDM is Mobile Device Management is a software that allows IT admins the ability to control secure and enforce policys on Mobile devices
•	Transparent Operation of BitLocker authentication allows the user to startup the computer and login to windows as normal.
•	Guidelines contain the description of best pratices and recommendations for achieving a certain policy goal
•	MTTR is mean time to repair
•	MTTF is mean time to failure
•	Generators provide protection against long term power outages.
•	Power brownouts are a drop in voltage which may cause electronic devices to fail or behave unpredictably.
•	.vbs file is a Visual Basic Script File
•	Mission Control provides a quick way to see everything that is currently open on your MAC.
•	Time Machine Restores files on a MAC
•	Snapshot feature of linux provides the ability to create a volume image of a device at a particular instant without causing a service interruption
•	Disk Utility provides Health information of a disk on a MAC
•	 Keychain on MAC is a password management system
•	Linux ps displays the running processes.
•	Ifconfig and iwconfig allow you to configure linux network interfaces
•	Boot camp installs windows on your MAC by partitioning the hard drive
•	HFS is the Hierarchical file system and MAC uses it.
•	GPT stands for GUID partition Table.
•	Bootrec /fixboot is the recovery console command used to correct a corrupted windows boot sector
•	SFC (like in SFC /SCANNOW) is the system File Checker
•	NET START SPOOLER is the command used to manually restart the print spooler
•	Defrag D: -F will force defrag on drive D: regardless of whether it needs to be defragmented
•	COMPACT is the command that shows the compression ratio of NTFS Compression
•	Convert is the command to change a FAT partition to NTFS
•	Dxdiag is the command to diagnose DirectX
•	UAC us User Account Control
•	USMT is the User State Migration Tool and it is used to migrate user settings from one OS to another.
•	System Volume contains the startup files
•	Error, Warning and Information are three types of events that are displayed in the Event Viewer.
•	RDP, TELNET, and SSH are three remote access technologies covered in A+
•	Wake on LAN is initially enabled in the BIOS
•	Remote Assistance is used to request help from an expert user.
•	WIN + L quickly locks a windows computer
•	A+ outlines the Steps of Malware remove as follows
1.	Identify and research Malware symptoms.
2.	Quarentine the infected systems
3.	Disable System Restore
4.	Remediate the infected systems.
5.	Update the anti-malware software.
6.	Scan and use removal techniques (safe mode, pre-installation enviorment).
7.	Schedule scans and run updates.
8.	Enable System Restore and Create a restore point (in Windows).
9.	Educate the end user,
•	Three recycling or repurposing methods listed on the A+ exam.
1. Low-level format vs. standard format
2. Overwrite
3. Drive wipe
•	The three parts of first response when an incident occurs are as follows
1. Identify 
2. Report through the proper channels
3. Data/device preservation
•	PCI stands for Payment Card Industry
•	GDPR is the General Data Protection Regulation
•	Backout plans are used to return to normal operations and revers a change when a fix/action causes unperceived problems.
•	AVR (Automatic Voltage Regulation) provides protection from power surges and power drops.
•	NETBOOT is the technology that enables MAC to boot from a network
•	MSTSC is the utility you used to open the RDP connection.
•	The HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT registry subtree contains all the file association information. Whenever you double-click a file with a specific extension, Windows uses this information to determine which application it should open.
•	The HKEY_CURRENT_CONFIG registry subtree contains information about the current configuration of the computer's hardware.
•	The HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE registry subtree contains all the configuration information for the computer's hardware.
•	The HKEY_USERS registry subtree contains user-specific configuration information for all the users who have ever logged onto Windows.
•	Pwd = print working directory
•	Transport is not a layer defined in the defense in depth starategy