---
title: IT Capstone Written Projects
description: C769
published: true
date: 2022-07-25T13:37:12.115Z
tags: College, Writing
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2022-09-09T04:44:01.149Z
---

# IT Capstone Written Project

# C769 - Capstone Pacing Guide

## Week Instructions/Activities

### 1

1.  Read the Course of Study and walk through all Course Materials.
2.  Browse the [Model Capstone Archive](https://capstonearchives.wgu.edu/) for ideas.
3.  Review and complete Human Subjects FAQs and Quiz.
4.  Download and review the Task 1 Topic Approval Form.
5.  Define your project’s topic. It must fall within your Program Emphasis.  
    _Note: BSIT has no emphasis to topics can be related to any IT discipline._
6.  Use the Topic Approval form to define your project topic and send the completed form  
    to [UGCapstoneIT@WGU.edu](UGCapstoneIT@WGU.edu) for approval.
7.  Contact a Course Mentor if you are having trouble defining a project topic.
8.  End this week with an approved project topic in hand.
9.  Prepare the appropriate Waiver-Release, Human Subjects and Topic Approval forms.
10.  Submit the three forms (Task 1) to TaskStream.
11.  View [this](https://wgu.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=db8381ab-1659-49e9-b5fc-ebb844c66944) video on writing your Capstone Proposal Overview.
12.  Download and review the Task 2 Proposal Template.

### 2

1.  View [this](https://wgu.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=6b566692-f4d4-4460-84c1-8b4afc08f2da) video on writing your Review of Other Work.
2.  Write the Review of Other Work section.
3.  View [this](https://wgu.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=1fff04ae-4974-4999-b147-7fcb8d934904) video on Rationale and Current Environment.
4.  View [this](https://wgu.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=90c39389-0e33-49ac-b96c-322810900a2e) video on Methodology (First part of this link)
5.  Write the Rationale, Current Environment and Methodology sections.

### 3

1.  View [this](https://wgu.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=90c39389-0e33-49ac-b96c-322810900a2e) video on Methodololgy, Goals, Objectives and Deliverables.
2.  Write the Goals, Objectives and the Project Deliverables section.
3.  View [this](https://wgu.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=a1daad4d-43f7-40e5-86be-ab7fe69ab76b) video on Timeline and Outcomes.
4.  Write the Project Timeline and Outcome sections.
5.  Edit and revise paper as needed.

### 4

1.  Incorporate Course Mentor Feedback.
2.  Perform final proofing and editing.
3.  Submit Project Proposal (Task 2) to TaskStream.

### 5

1.  Revise Proposal (if needed).  
    **_Note: work closely with Course Mentor if revisions are required._**
2.  View [this](https://wgu.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=5286bdf6-43c4-479e-8135-72922ac3f6bf) video on writing your Final Capstone Report.
3.  Download and review the Task 3 Written Report Template.
4.  Complete each section in the Written Report Template.  
    _Note: some of this content can be re-purposed from your Task 2 proposal document._

### 6

1.  Send Capstone Written report in for draft review (optional). – UGCasptoneIT@WGU.edu
2.  Submit Written Report (Task 3) to TaskStream.
3.  Revise Report (if needed).  
    **_Note: work closely with Course Mentor if revisions are required._**



## Step 1: Submit a brief project idea and receive approval to continue

### The Capstone Project

Capstone projects should adhere to the following requirements: 

-   The project should clearly relate to your program emphasis. If you are in the unemphasized BSIT program, this restriction does not apply. 
-   The project should deliver information technology that solves a problem or fulfills a need for one or more stakeholders. Hence, prescriptive (how-to) and descriptive (informational or topical) papers are not good project ideas. 
-   Past or present work projects are acceptable as long as they adhere to all the capstone requirements. Work projects must have the approval of your employer or must present all proprietary and identifying information generically in a way that does not violate your employer’s rights. Use the IT Capstone Project Waiver for obtaining employer permission. All forms and templates can also be found in your assessment. 

### Tip

Once you have a project idea in mind, use the [Capstone Topic Approval Form](https://access.wgu.edu/ASP3/aap/content/it%20capstone%20topic%20approval%20form.docx) to present your idea to the IT capstone instructors. Email it to ugcapstoneit@wgu.edu. The instructors may request more information.