---
title: Linux Foundations
description: C851
published: true
date: 2022-07-25T13:45:38.335Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2022-05-09T13:47:53.978Z
---
# Linux Foundations - C851
[YouTube](https://youtu.be/3p0GR09GvL4)

CopyLeft - A license that gives the right to people to freely distribute copies and modified versions of a work with the agreement

Copyright - A legally recognized right to create a copy of something

Free Software - Software that is distributed under a license, such as the GPL, that permits copying and modification under liberal terms. AKA Open Source.

General Public License (GPL) - A common free software license, created and favored by the Free Software Foundation

GNU Free Documentation License (FDL) A lice4nse that is intended for use in documentation rather than by programs.

Open Source - A broad set of software licenses, or the software that uses them, that permits redistribution and copying under liberal terms. The open source definition is somewhat broader than that of free software.

Software - a type of intellectual property that is governed by copyright laws and, in some countries, patent laws.

The Automatic License Distribution principle defines that the license must apply to anybody who receives the program, without needing a separate agreement.

The FSF's general principles are summarized by the term copyleft, which refers to using copyright laws for purposes that are in some ways contrary to copyright's original intent.

Some distributions (particularly Enterprise versions that are sold for money) include software that is neither open source nor even freely redistributable, so option C is correct.

Distributions as a whole use many licenses, not just one, so option D is incorrect. The MIT license is one of several open source licenses; such software is not an impediment to copying a distribution, so option B is incorrect. Although some distributions, such as Debian, aim to make their main systems fully open source compliant, not all do this, so option A is incorrect. Likewise, not all distributions are composed completely of free software as the FSF uses the term.

The open source definition specifies that users should be able to distribute changes, but it doesn't require that users distribute the software under the terms of the same license

Free Software Foundation or FSF was a philosophy founded by Richard Stallman in 1985

This principle is at the heart of both the free software and the open source software definitions.

An organization devoted to promoting open source-like principles in fields such as video and audio recordings is the Creative Commons.

A license created by the FSF and often used for libraries is the LGPL or Lesser GPL or Lesser General Public License.

Cooperative Multitasking - A task in which the program could voluntarily give up CPU time to other processes.

Preemptive Multitasking - A task in which the kernel schedules the CPU time for programs, even if the programs didn’t voluntarily give up control.

Shareware - a software similar to commercial software in that its copyrighted and the author asks for payment.

Source code - the version of a program written by a human and typically stored in plaintext (ASCII) file format. A compiler converts source code to a binary form that a computer can run. 

X Window System - A highly configurable and free client-server system that manages the graphical user interfaces (GUIs) on a particular computer and on computers within a network.

Linux uses a monolithic kernel design, as contrasted with a microkernel design.

Linux uses Preemptive Multitasking, meaning that the kernel can give CPU time to any process as it sees fit.

VMS was an OS for minicomputers and mainframes when Linux was created. On x86 computers, DOS was the dominant OS in 1991.

Most server programs do not require the X Window System (X) GUI, so server computer administrators often disable X or even remove it entirely to save disk space and memory and to minimize the risk of security problems.

Evolution is an email reader program. Such programs are common on desktop computers, so option D is correct.

Apache is a web server, Postfix is an email server, and the Berkeley Internet Name Domain (BIND) is a Domain Name System (DNS) server. Such servers are much less likely to be installed on desktop computers than are client programs such as Evolution, so options A, B, and E are all incorrect. Android is the name of a Linux distribution for smartphones and tablets, so option C is incorrect.

KDE - A popular desktop environment for linux and is the default desktop environment for Mandriva and openSuse.

Super Service - a server that listens for network connections intended for other servers and launches those servers. Examples on Linux are inetd and xinetd.

A program written in a(n) compiled programming language is completely converted to binary form before being run.

The main language for the Linux kernel is C

The \\ symbol allows extending a single commad to multiple lines in a linux terminal.

Ksh - korn shell designed to take the best features of BASH and c sell and extend them.

Whereis - a command that searches for files in a restricetd set of locations, such as standard binary file directories.

Zsh - The Z shell takes shell evolution futher than the korn shell, incorporating features from earlier shells and adding still more.

Fhs - Filesystem Hierarchy Standard - Defines the directory structure and directory cotents in linux distrobutions.

Globbing - Filename expansion using \*,?. And so on is sometimes called globbing.

Hardlink - a directory entry for a file that has another directory entry. All hardlinks are equlally valid ways of accessing a file, and all must be deleted in order to delte a file.

Softlink - a type of file that refers to another file on the computer. When a program tries to access a soft link, linux passes the contents of the linked-to file to the program. If the linked-to program is delted, the softlink sotps working. Deleting a softlink doesn’t affect the original file.

Incremental backup - a type of backup in which only the files that have changed since the last backup are backed up.

Standard error - An output stream that’s reserved for high-priority messages, such as errors.

Standard input - the default method of delivering input to a program. It normally corresponds to the keyboard at which you type.

Standard output - the default method of delivering purely test-based information from a program to the user. It Normally corresponds to a text mode screen, xterm window, or the like.

Daemon - a daemon is a program that runs continuously in the background waiting for an event to trigger it to perform some action.

Forest - a command that creates a disply that shows parent/shild relationship

Gedit - an official text editor of the GNOME desktop enviorment.

Memory leak - a type of program bug in which the program request memory from the kernel and then fails to return it when its done with the memory.

Tail - displays the last 10 lines of a file.

American Standard Code for the Information Interchange (ASCII) - An encoding method for alphanumeric data, commonly used for text files.

Command Mode - A vi opertaion mode that accepts the command usually as single letters.

Emacs - a big editior with lots of features, so its less likely to be installed by default, particularly on the small, lightweight distributions.

Ex mode - A vi operation mode that allows users to manipulate the files.

Pico - a small editor modeled after emac which is originated as part of the pine email package.

Vi - a small, flexable, and multimode editor which accomplishes various tasks by switching between modes.

Aplay - a command that is a basic audio file player.

Conditional expression - a construct of computer programming and scripting languages used to express a condition, such as the equality of two variables or the presence of a file on a disk. Conditional Expressions enable a program or script to take one action in one case and another action in another case.

Function - a part of a script that performs a particular subtask and that can be called by name from other parts of the script.

Loops - Loops are structures that tell the script to perform the same task repeatedly until some condition is met.

Sed - a program that provides many of the capabilities of a conventional text editor but via commands that can be typed at a command prompt or entered in a script.

Seq - a command that generates a list of numbers starting from its first argument and continuing to its last one.

Until - a loop that continues execution for as long as its condition is false.

/etc/passwd - a colon-separated file that contains details about users, such as username, UID, password, and GID.

Getent - a command that displays entries from databases supported by the Name Service Switch Libraries, which are configured in /etc/nsswitch.conf

JCPU - an entry of the w command that identifies the total amount of CPU time associated with the session. 

Newgrp - a command that changes the current group ID during a login session.

PCPU - an entry of the w command that identifies the total amount of CPU time associated with the current process running in the session.

Repudiation Enviorment - an enviorment in which a person can deny actions. This enviorment could allow a root account user to preform illegal or troublemaking activity and the legally deny being responsible for that activity.

Su - the su command enables users to change their identity within a shell.

User ID (UID) a number associated with a particular account.

WHAT - an entry of the w command that tells about on what program the session is running.

Who - the who command is used to display information about users who are currently logged in.

\-U - an option of the usermod command that unlocks a locked account password.

\-u - a parameter of the usermod command that changes the accouns UID number of the specified value.

Groups - Linux uses groups as a means of organizing users.

Last - a program that produces a list of recent login sessions, including their starting and ending times, and also notices that the user is still logged in.

Mail Spool - a file or directory that holds a users incoming email.

Skeleton directory - a directory, typically /etc/skel, that holds files that should be copied to each new users home directory as the users account is created.

Useradd - a utility to create an account from the command line.

Userdel - a command that deltes the account from a text-mode shell

Usermod - this utility changes an existing account instead of creating a new one.

Blockdevice - a file that corresponds to a hardware device to and from which data is transferred in blocks.

r- - - - - - - Code 400 , UUUGGGOOO R=4 W=2 X=1

Sticky bit - the sticky bit has changed meaning during the course of Unix history. In modern Linux implementations its used to protect files from being deleted by those who don’t own the files.

SUID - a permission bit for file in a UNIX-compatible filesystem

Umask - is a bit pattern representing the permission bits that are to be removed from new files as they are created by processes.

Iwlist - a command that identifies nearby Wi-Fi networks.

\-m - wc command option that displays the number of characters in a file.

The o command inserts a blank line below the current line in vi.

Gzip, bzip2 and xz are archive formats supported by tar.

A text file keeps records in the following format:

field1|field2|field3|field4 - The **cut -f 2 -d "|" rec.txt** command displays only the information in the second field of the **rec.txt** file. From the file's format, it is clear that fields in this file are separated by **|** (pipes). So, this field delimiter is specified in the **cut** command using the **\-d** option. Also, since only the contents of the second field are to be displayed, this number is specified using the **\-f** option as **\-f 2**.

The - filetype code identifies a normal data file. These files can be simple text files, scripts, graphics, and so on. This code is present in the beginning of the file's permission string.

The l at the starting of a file's permission string identifies a file as a symbolic link. Symbolic links are the files that refer to other files and hold the name of the file they refer.

The \\ symbol is used to write multi-line commands

Companies can make money from GPLed software in all of the following ways:

By offering to add features to GPLed software for a price

By selling a mix of GPLed software and proprietary software

By selling technical support services associated with GPLed software

By releasing GPLed software to make use of hardware that a company sells

The -p option is used with the mkdir command to create parent directories if needed. This command does not generate an error if the parent directory already exists.

The $? variable holds the exit status of the last executed command or script. The echo $? command is used to display the exit status of the last executed command or script.

The /etc/resolv.conf file contains similar lines. This file tells the system which computers are to be used as DNS servers and which domain is to be used as the default.

The :%s/scrt/script/g command will replace all the occurrences of the word scrt to script. The /g at the end of the command makes sure that multiple occurrences of the word in the same line are replaced as well.

The section **5** contains information about file formats, such as **resolv.conf**.

 The free command displays the memory usage by a system, including the total memory available, the amount being used, and the amount that's unused.

Set user ID (SUID) and Set group ID (SGID) are set on a file to run with a specific set of permissions, regardless of the user accessing it. The file that has the SUID bit set runs with the permission set of the owner of the file and not the executor of the file.

Patent protects the idea itself, not just the expression of an idea. It prevents others from making use of the patented idea. It applies to inventions—physical devices or, in many countries, more abstract inventions such as algorithms.

The **:e** command is used in the **vi** editor's command mode to open a new file for editing. This command opens the new file only when the changes made to the previous files are saved.

In useradd The -M option is used to create a user account without creating the user's home directory. Whenever this option is used, the system does not automatically create the user's home directory.

The **rpm** and **yum** tools belong to the Red Hat family of PMS tools. **rpm** is a low-level tool, but it serves as the foundation of RHL (Red Hat Linux) PMS. **yum** is mostly used on RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux), CentOS, and Fedora distributions.

The myvar=\`date\` command assigns the output of the date command to the myvar variable. The \` (backtick) symbol is used to store the output of a command in a variable.

The . (dot) matches any single character. The \* (asterisk) matches any repetition of the match that precedes it. So the .\* expression matches any sequence of characters of any length

../ is a relative reference used to refer to the parent directory of the current directory. It can be chained together as ../../ and so on.

The export command is used to make an environment variable available to subshells. This command is a shell built-in command, makes newly created environment variables accessible to child processes

The GNU tool set and the X Window System are parts of the core Unix tools critical to the normal functioning of a Linux system.

The **esac** keyword is used to terminate a **case** statement. Each clause in a **case** statement is terminated with **;;**.

The locate command uses a database that maintains a record of files on the system. This database is updated at regular intervals or at system start. So, the most probable reason as to why the locate command is unable to find the file is that the database hasn't been updated yet. To update the database manually, the updatedb command is used.

The chmod a=rw command assigns only the read and write permissions to all the users which can be represented by the rw-rw-rw- permission set. Also, the chmod a+rw command adds the read and write permissions for all the users, in addition to the previous permissions.

The **/etc/group** file contains the following information on groups, in fields separated by **:** (colon):

1.  The name of the group
2.  The group's password
3.  GIDs of the group
4.  List of all the users who are members of the group

The & (ampersand) symbol is appended with a command to run it in the background. Commands running in the background can be suspended using the Ctrl+Z key combination.

The /etc/group file defines groups on a Linux system. This file contains a list of groups on the system—name of the group, group password, GID, and list of users that belong to the group.

The less pager is used to view man pages, one page at a time. This program allows both backward and forward movements.

The -uid option is used to specify the numeric user ID of a user who owns the file. Similarly, the -user option is used to specify the name of a user.

Linus Torvalds created the Linux kernel in the year 1991. This kernel was designed to be compatible with UNIX kernels, making the use of open source programs easy with the Linux kernel.

The -g (or --gid) option can be used with the groupadd command to create a new group with a specific GID. When this option is omitted, the groupadd command assigns the next available GID to the new group.

Emacs provides both the text-mode and GUI interfaces for editing text. It can be started by executing the emacs command on the terminal.

The Ctrl+U keystroke is used to paste the text that was either cut or copied previously. This command pastes the contents of the buffer at the current location in the file.

The Ctrl+K keystroke deletes a line of text in nano. It can also be used to cut a marked text.

The 2>> redirection operator is used to append a command's standard error to a file. If the file in question doesn't exist already, it is created.

The 2> operator creates a new file or overwrites the existing file to write the stderr

FSF defines free software as software that follows the four specific software freedoms defined by FSF, which include the freedom to modify and redistribute software.

The command > file.txt 2> /dev/null command writes the standard output to the file.txt file and the standard error to the /dev/null file. The /dev/null file discards any and all data sent to it. So, only the standard output is written to file.txt.

The while looping statement executes as long as its condition is true. The while loop follows the following syntax:

The dhclient command can be used to bring up a network interface (Ethernet interface eth0 in this case). Some distributions use dhcpd command to perform this task.

The -n option is used with the echo command to prevent the newline character from being appended to its output. The next shell prompt starts right after the output of the echo command when this option is used with it.

To find out one or more occurrences of the word Title in a sentence, use Title+ as the expression. In the expression, Title matches the characters of the word Title literally (case sensitive) and the + quantifier matches its occurrence between one and unlimited times.

The ls -d k\* command displays only the names of the subdirectories, of the current directory, having names starting with k. The k\* wildcard matches only the directories with names starting with k.

The -s option is used with the test command to check if the specified file exists and has a non-zero size. This option can be used in the if command's conditional expressions even without the test command.

The ring buffer logs are stored in the memory. The dmesg command can be used to display or control the kernel ring buffer on a Linux system.

The man -k command performs the same task as the apropos command when they are executed with a keyword. They search for the specified keyword through all the man pages and display any matches.

The -g option is used with the groupmod command to change the gid of a group. The groupmod command is used to modify the existing group. It makes changes in the /etc/group file.

The read command is used to retrieve user input into a variable in a Bash script. This command can be used to split the standard input into fields. It can also read from a file descriptor.

The -c option is used with the touch command to update the specified file's timestamps only. This option stops the touch command from creating a new file if it doesn't exist already.

The su -c command command will execute the command command with the root privileges. This command is similar to the sudo command.

The ~ (tilde) symbol, when pressed in the command mode of the vi editor, changes the case of the highlighted alphabet. This method saves a user from entering the insert mode and retyping the word again.

/proc - stores the process id of a process.

Digital Visual Interface(DVI) standard is a modern video interface that's commonly used on computer monitors.

Disk partitioning enables you to separate data of different types into different parts of a disk. Examples of reasons to do this include installing multiple OSs and separating filesystem data from swap space. Thus options E and B are both correct.

Filesystem choice (ext4fs vs. ReiserFS) has nothing to do with partitioning, unless you want to use one filesystem for one partition and the other on another partition, so option D is incorrect. The Parallel Advanced Technology Attachment (PATA) and Serial ATA (SATA) interfaces are hardware standards; you can't turn a PATA disk into an SATA disk by partitioning the disk, so option C is incorrect. Hard disks have caches to improve performance, but partitioning the disk does not separate the disk's cache from the bulk of the disk's data, so option A is incorrect.

The less program, like more, displays a text file a page at a time. The less utility also includes the ability to page backward in the text file, search its contents, and do other things that more can't do

Which of the following directories stores various executable not needed for booting or repairing the Linux system? /usr/bin

Individual program authors decide on a documentation file format based on their own specific needs and preferences. Although some documents are in OpenDocument Text format, many documents are not.

Each document in an info page is known as a(n)node.

The whatis command is used to search through the man pages for a specific keyword, and display a short description of the match. This command searches through the summary information in man pages.

The section 5 contains information about file formats, such as resolv.conf. The section 1 contains description of executable programs, the section 3 contains information on library calls, and the section 9 contains description about kernel routines.

The Linux kernel uses the GPLv2 (GPL version 2). The GPLv1 has been largely abandoned, and although the GPLv3 is becoming popular, the Linux kernel still uses the GPLv2.

The less pager is used to view man pages, one page at a time. This program allows both backward and forward movements.

../ is a relative reference used to refer to the parent directory of the current directory. It can be chained together as ../../ and so on.

Companies can make money from GPLed software in all of the following ways:

By offering to add features to GPLed software for a price

By selling a mix of GPLed software and proprietary software

By selling technical support services associated with GPLed software

By releasing GPLed software to make use of hardware that a company sells

The -n option is used with the echo command to prevent the newline character from being appended to its output. The next shell prompt starts right after the output of the echo command when this option is used with it.

The man -k command performs the same task as the apropos command when they are executed with a keyword. They search for the specified keyword through all the man pages and display any matches.

The -c option is used with the touch command to update the specified file's timestamps only. This option stops the touch command from creating a new file if it doesn't exist already.

The cut -f 2 -d "|" rec.txt command displays only the information in the second field of the rec.txt file. From the file's format, it is clear that fields in this file are separated by | (pipes). So, this field delimiter is specified in the cut command using the -d option. Also, since only the contents of the second field are to be displayed, this number is specified using the -f option as -f 2.

The -p option is used with the mkdir command to create parent directories if needed. This command does not generate an error if the parent directory already exists.

The -m option is used with the wc command to display the number of characters in a file. This option is a default for wc.

The -r (or --system) option is used with the useradd command to create a system account. By default, the system account is created with no aging information and without any home directory.

The zip -9 trip.zip holiday.tif desc.txt command will create a zip file named trip.zip. The -9 option specifies the compression level, and this option (9 to be specific) provides the maximum compression.

A function is a part of a script that performs a specific subtask and can be called by name from other parts of the script. A function is defined by placing parentheses after the function name and enclosing the lines that make up the function within curly braces.

The device filename of the first logical partition on the second MBR disk on a system will be /dev/sdb5. The second MBR disk's filename will be sdb. The logical partitions on MBR disks are numbered from 5, so the first logical partition will be sdb5.

The following keywords identify DNS resolution features in the /etc/resolv.conf file:

domain: Identifies the computer's default domain name

search: Specifies a search list for hostname lookup

nameserver: Identifies DNS server computers by IP address

The J (or --xz) tar qualifier causes it to use xz compression. xz provides the most compression.

The #!/bin/bash statement is a script file that identifies the script as a Bash script. The #! (shebang) line in a shell script is ignored by the script utility but not by the Linux kernel. Since, this line begins with a # symbol, the script utility treats it as a comment. This line specifies the path of the program that is to be used to execute the script.

The vi editor has the following three operation modes:

Command

Insert

Ex

The sticky bit is missing from /tmp, it must be set. In general, the sticky bit is set on /tmp, which prevents other users (other than the file's owner) from deleting the files in the directory

The umask command is used to specify the default permission mode for new files. If the umask value is set to 077, all the files that are created next will have the permissions -rw------- by default.

The info documentation reader provides hyperlinks between documentation pages that can be accessed using the keyboard. To browse to a new node using the info reader, select a link using the arrow keys and then press the Enter key

The -r (or --system) option is used with the useradd command to create a system account. By default, the system account is created with no aging information and without any home directory.

The output of the given lines of code will be abc. The for loop will iterate for each of the values: a, b, and c. With each iteration of the loop, the alpha variable will have values a, b, and c, respectively. Also, the echo command will display the value of the alpha variable every time, and the -n option makes sure that a newline character is not appended with the output of the echo command. So, with each iteration, the output will be: first- a, second- ab, and third- abc.

Bounties are open source business models that use the crowdfunding method. Users offer to pay for new features or software.

The ifconfig command is used to get the information about the IP address, subnet mask, broadcast address, and MAC address. This command can also be used to bring up or down a network interface.

passed,

Couple of things that I noted

\- Know how variable strings are called and set

\- Know what free software restrictions are

\- Know where the majority of base commands are called from (/etc)

\- Know how Linux is loaded on an IaaDs (AWS) setup

I built thinned out a quizlet from a few of my notes that I used to study on Linux+. [https://quizlet.com/\_9l2izi?x=1jqt&i=3e5qu1](https://quizlet.com/_9l2izi?x=1jqt&i=3e5qu1)



\------------------- ------------------------------ ------------------------------------

Here's what I can remember:

\-  permissions string of /tmp/ directory (drwxrwxrwt)

\-  command to create user and default home directory at the same time

\- package manager for Red Hat/CentOS

\- what two commands can remove a directory

\- what button quits out of less

\- know how to convert permission string to octal

\- what two flags on tar command are related to compression

\- which of the following are related to dmesg (lists 4 options)

\- if the current directory is /home/Desktop and the following command is used, what directory are you in? cd ../Documents

\- what is the purpose of a Free Software license

\- what command can you use to get command line options for a specific command

\- which if the following is an output of the command free

\- which of the following commands lets you see processes by priority, disk usage, memory, etc (top)

\- which of the following commands let's you see the reverse dns of an IP?

\- how is an IP to host mapping stored on a dns server? (A record 192.168.0.51.in-addr.arpa)

\- what command to create a loop

\- what character to execute a multi line command

\- how do you sort the output of the command output-logs? (output-logs | sort)

\------------------------------- ----------------------------------- ------------------------------------

Here are the questions I remember not in a particular order.

1\. What command split mulitiple commands. 

Ans. \\

2\. What command moves these two files to /home

file1.txt

file2.tx

Ans. cp \*.txt /home

3\. What is the output of the top command?

Ans. Remember the command output by using linux because its the same.

4\. The ouput of last command.

Ans. It should show last login of users. Use a linux terminal to remember how it looks.

5\. What is the root uid?

Ans. 0

5\. The command to create a user along with its home directory.

Ans. Do not remember the actual answer but it should be this format: useradd -m user

6\. How do you exit when after using the less command?

Ans. press the letter q but just q on the exam

7\. How do you search for a file named foo.txt on /home.

Ans. find /home -name foo.txt

8\. What are tar options?

Ans. Show several switches, do not remember which ones.

9\. There is something about Red hat and what free version can admins use since they hat red hat experience.

Ans. CentOS

10\. What is the output of free?

Ans. Run the command in linux because its the same output. A hint would be the output that shows memory.

How I studied.

I focused  on the command line more. I would run commands even after finishing the labs. 

I noticed the plentiful switches that comes with the commands and tried to memorized and practice them.

I used learn mode on the practice exams to memorize the terms because it explains them at the bottom.

How I tested.

I used proccess of elimination and left myself the possible answers. 

The test almost gives it away if your familiar with the command line because it is mostly command line based test.


6. How do you exit when after using the less command?
Ans. press the letter q but just q on the exam
7. How do you search for a file named foo.txt on /home.
Ans. find /home -name foo.txt
8. What are tar options?
Ans. Show several switches, do not remember which ones.
9. There is something about Red hat and what free version can admins use since they hat red hat experience.
Ans. CentOS
10. What is the output of free?
Ans. Run the command in linux because its the same output. A hint would be the output that shows memory.
How I studied.
I focused  on the command line more. I would run commands even after finishing the labs. 
I noticed the plentiful switches that comes with the commands and tried to memorized and practice them.
I used learn mode on the practice exams to memorize the terms because it explains them at the bottom.
How I tested.
I used proccess of elimination and left myself the possible answers. 
The test almost gives it away if your familiar with the command line because it is mostly command line based test.
